.TH "A meta definition value." 3 "3 Apr 2013" "Version 2.0.3" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
A meta definition value. \- 
.PP
A meta definition value is comprised of a data segment using a \fCshmeta_value_t\fP as a header.  

.SS "Data Structures"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshmeta_value_v1_t\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe base of a version 1 shmeta hashmap entry value. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Typedefs"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "typedef struct \fBshmeta_value_v1_t\fP \fBshmeta_value_t\fP"
.br
.RI "\fISpecifies a reference to the current version of a shmeta hashmap entry value. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBshmeta_str\fP (char *str)"
.br
.RI "\fICreates a \fCshmeta_value_t\fP hashmap value from a string. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A meta definition value is comprised of a data segment using a \fCshmeta_value_t\fP as a header. 

The \fCshmeta_value_t\fP specifies the meta definition's data segment. No \fCshmeta_value\fP variables need to be set if the hashmap is only going to reside in memory. Providing the \fC\fBshmeta_value_t.sz\fP\fP is set appropriately then no other variables need to be filled to generate raw hashmap entries. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "char* shmeta_str (char * str)"
.PP
Creates a \fCshmeta_value_t\fP hashmap value from a string. \fBParameters:\fP
.RS 4
\fIstr\fP The string to generated into a hashmap value.  shmeta_set 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
