.TH "shmeta_value_v1_t" 3 "3 Apr 2013" "Version 2.0.3" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shmeta_value_v1_t \- 
.PP
The base of a version 1 shmeta hashmap entry value.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shmeta_value.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBmagic\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe hard-coded value \fCSHMETA_VALUE_MAGIC\fP set to ensure validity. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBcrc\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAn adler32 checksum of this \fCshmeta_value_t\fP hashmap value header and the data segment following. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBstamp\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA unix-time timestamp referencing when this hashmap value was generated. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBgl\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA unique index number directly related to this \fCshmeta_value_t\fP hashmap value. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBfunc\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA adler32 reference to a function pertaining to this hashmap value. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBpf\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA paramater format which describes the data segment following the \fCshmeta_value_t\fP header. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBseq\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA sequence number in an order of operations. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fBname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIadler32 reference to the name of this value. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBsz\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe total size of data segment with a \fCshmeta_value_t\fP header. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBraw\fP [0]"
.br
.RI "\fIblind reference to additional an data segment. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
The base of a version 1 shmeta hashmap entry value. 
.PP
Definition at line 48 of file shmeta_value.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "uint32_t \fBshmeta_value_v1_t::magic\fP"
.PP
The hard-coded value \fCSHMETA_VALUE_MAGIC\fP set to ensure validity. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Used for recycling pools of objects and to ensure network integrity. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 55 of file shmeta_value.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
