.TH "Encryption, memory pools, and hashmaps." 3 "6 Sep 2014" "Version 2.1.4" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Encryption, memory pools, and hashmaps. \- 
.PP
Memory manipulation routines.  

.SS "Modules"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBUtility functions to generate unique checksums of data.\fP"
.br
.PP

.RI "\fIKey token generator. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBDynamic memory buffer allocation utilities.\fP"
.br
.PP

.RI "\fIDynamic memory buffer. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBThe libshare memory buffer pool allocation utilities.\fP"
.br
.PP

.RI "\fIMemory Buffer Pools. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBStore object-related information by key token.\fP"
.br
.PP

.RI "\fIMeta definition hashmaps. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBEncryption and decryption of memory segments.\fP"
.br
.PP

.RI "\fIEncryption routines. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBUtility functions to provide mutex thread locks and semaphores.\fP"
.br
.PP

.RI "\fIMutex and semaphore locks. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBUtility functions to generate unique checksums of data in SHA256 format.\fP"
.br
.PP

.RI "\fIGenerate hash checksums. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBJSON text parser and generator.\fP"
.br
.PP

.RI "\fIJSON text parser and generator. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBScrypt hash generator\fP"
.br
.PP

.RI "\fIScrypt hash generator. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHMEM_MAGIC\fP   0x87654321"
.br
.RI "\fIA hard-coded value stored in memory segments in order to validate a current state or integrity. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBSHMEM_PAD_SIZE\fP   32"
.br
.RI "\fIThe byte padding size when allocating a stored value. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
Memory manipulation routines. 
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define SHMEM_MAGIC   0x87654321"
.PP
A hard-coded value stored in memory segments in order to validate a current state or integrity. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Specifies a hard-coded value that identifies a \fCshmeta_value_t\fP data segment. 
.RE
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshmeta_value_t\fP \fBshencode()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 43 of file shmem.h.
.SS "#define SHMEM_PAD_SIZE   32"
.PP
The byte padding size when allocating a stored value. \fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshencode()\fP \fBshmeta_set()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 49 of file shmem.h.
.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
