.TH "shfs_journal_t" 3 "21 Dec 2014" "Version 2.17" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shfs_journal_t \- 
.PP
A sharefs filesystem journal.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shfs.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_t\fP * \fBtree\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe sharefs partition this journal is part of. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBindex\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe index number of the journal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshbuf_t\fP * \fBbuff\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe data segment of the journaled sharefs file system. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBpath\fP [4095+1]"
.br
.RI "\fIThe path to the sharefs partition journal on the local filesystem. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshtime_t\fP \fBstamp\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A sharefs filesystem journal. 

Each partition is composed of \fCSHFS_MAX_JOURNAL\fP journals. 
.PP
Definition at line 790 of file shfs.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshbuf_t\fP* \fBshfs_journal_t::buff\fP"
.PP
The data segment of the journaled sharefs file system. 
.PP
Definition at line 805 of file shfs.h.
.SS "int \fBshfs_journal_t::index\fP"
.PP
The index number of the journal. This value ranges from 0 to ( \fCSHFS_MAX_JOURNAL\fP - 1 ). 
.PP
Definition at line 800 of file shfs.h.
.SS "char \fBshfs_journal_t::path\fP[4095+1]"
.PP
The path to the sharefs partition journal on the local filesystem. 
.PP
Definition at line 810 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_t\fP* \fBshfs_journal_t::tree\fP"
.PP
The sharefs partition this journal is part of. 
.PP
Definition at line 794 of file shfs.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
