.TH "shfs_hdr_t" 3 "13 Nov 2014" "Version 2.16" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shfs_hdr_t \- 
.PP
A sharefs filesystem inode header.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shfs.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshkey_t\fP \fBname\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA adler32 checksum reference of the inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshsize_t\fP \fBsize\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe total size of the data segment being referenced. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshtime_t\fP \fBctime\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe time that the inode was created. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshtime_t\fP \fBmtime\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe last time this inode was written to. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_type_t\fP \fBtype\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIType of inode (SHINODE_XX). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint64_t \fBcrc\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_idx_t\fP \fBpos\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIInode position in the partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_idx_t\fP \fBnpos\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe position of the next inode in a chain. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_idx_t\fP \fBfpos\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe position of the first inode in a chain. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A sharefs filesystem inode header. 

\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshfs_meta()\fP \fBSHINODE_DIRECTORY\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 245 of file shfs.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshtime_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::ctime\fP"
.PP
The time that the inode was created. 
.PP
Definition at line 261 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_idx_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::fpos\fP"
.PP
The position of the first inode in a chain. 
.PP
Definition at line 288 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshtime_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::mtime\fP"
.PP
The last time this inode was written to. 
.PP
Definition at line 266 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshkey_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::name\fP"
.PP
A adler32 checksum reference of the inode. 
.PP
Definition at line 251 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_idx_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::npos\fP"
.PP
The position of the next inode in a chain. 
.PP
Definition at line 283 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_idx_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::pos\fP"
.PP
Inode position in the partition. 
.PP
Definition at line 278 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshsize_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::size\fP"
.PP
The total size of the data segment being referenced. 
.PP
Definition at line 256 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_type_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::type\fP"
.PP
Type of inode (SHINODE_XX). 
.PP
Definition at line 271 of file shfs.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
