.TH "shfs_ino_t" 3 "15 Apr 2013" "Version 2.1.0" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shfs_ino_t \- 
.PP
A sharefs filesystem inode.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shfs.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_hdr_t\fP \fBhdr\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIInode definition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "union {"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "   char \fBname\fP [(1024-sizeof(\fBshfs_hdr_t\fP))]"
.br
.RI "\fIThe name of the file being referenced by the inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "   char \fBbin\fP [(1024-sizeof(\fBshfs_hdr_t\fP))]"
.br
.RI "\fIBinary data content. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "} \fBd_raw\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe data segment of the inode block. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_t\fP * \fBtree\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe sharefs partition this inode is a part of. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBparent\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe parent inode containing this inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "struct \fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBbase\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe parent inode containing this inode. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshpeer_t\fP * \fBpeer\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe machine related to the sharefs inode's partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshmeta_t\fP * \fBchild\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIInode entities that are contained inside this [directory] inode. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A sharefs filesystem inode. 

\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBshfs_meta()\fP \fBSHINODE_DIRECTORY\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
.PP
\fBshfs_inode_mkdir.c\fP, \fBshfs_inode_remote_copy.c\fP, and \fBshfs_inode_remote_link.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 280 of file shfs.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "struct \fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::base\fP\fC [read]\fP"
.PP
The parent inode containing this inode. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
The root inode is self-circular for the root inode. 
.PP
This variable is not saved as part of the fileystem inode. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 320 of file shfs.h.
.SS "char \fBshfs_ino_t::bin\fP[(1024-sizeof(\fBshfs_hdr_t\fP))]"
.PP
Binary data content. 
.PP
Definition at line 298 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshmeta_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::child\fP"
.PP
Inode entities that are contained inside this [directory] inode. 
.PP
Definition at line 331 of file shfs.h.
.SS "union { ... }   \fBshfs_ino_t::d_raw\fP"
.PP
The data segment of the inode block. 
.SS "\fBshfs_hdr_t\fP \fBshfs_ino_t::hdr\fP"
.PP
Inode definition. 
.PP
Definition at line 285 of file shfs.h.
.SS "char \fBshfs_ino_t::name\fP[(1024-sizeof(\fBshfs_hdr_t\fP))]"
.PP
The name of the file being referenced by the inode. 
.PP
Definition at line 294 of file shfs.h.
.SS "struct \fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::parent\fP\fC [read]\fP"
.PP
The parent inode containing this inode. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
The root inode will have a parent of NULL. 
.PP
This variable is not saved as part of the fileystem inode. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 313 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshpeer_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::peer\fP"
.PP
The machine related to the sharefs inode's partition. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
This variable is not saved as part of the fileystem inode. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 326 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_t\fP* \fBshfs_ino_t::tree\fP"
.PP
The sharefs partition this inode is a part of. 
.PP
Definition at line 306 of file shfs.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
