.TH "shfs_t" 3 "7 Nov 2014" "Version 2.16" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shfs_t \- 
.PP
The sharefs filesystem structure.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shfs.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBflags\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe flags associated with the sharefs partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshpeer_t\fP \fBpeer\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe machine related to the sharefs inode's partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBbase_ino\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIRoot directory. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBcur_ino\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIApplication's current working directory. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP \fBp_node\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIRoot partition inode (supernode). \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
The sharefs filesystem structure. 

\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
See also: \fC\fBshfs_ino_t\fP\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
.PP
\fBshfs_inode_remote_copy.c\fP, and \fBshfs_inode_remote_link.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 384 of file shfs.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_t::base_ino\fP"
.PP
Root directory. 
.PP
Definition at line 399 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_t::cur_ino\fP"
.PP
Application's current working directory. 
.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBshfs_inode_remote_link.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 404 of file shfs.h.
.SS "int \fBshfs_t::flags\fP"
.PP
The flags associated with the sharefs partition. 
.PP
Definition at line 388 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP \fBshfs_t::p_node\fP"
.PP
Root partition inode (supernode). \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
This inode references the root directory of a partition. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 410 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshpeer_t\fP \fBshfs_t::peer\fP"
.PP
The machine related to the sharefs inode's partition. \fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
This variable is not saved as part of the fileystem inode. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
Definition at line 394 of file shfs.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
