.TH "shfs_hdr_t" 3 "11 Apr 2013" "Version 2.0.5" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shfs_hdr_t \- 
.PP
A sharefs filesystem inode header.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shfs.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_size_t\fP \fBd_size\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe total size of the data segment being referenced. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshtime_t\fP \fBd_stamp\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe last time this inode was written to. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_type_t\fP \fBd_type\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIType of inode (SHINODE_XX). \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_crc_t\fP \fBd_crc\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA adler32 checksum of the data segment being referenced. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "uint32_t \fB__reserved__\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_inode_off_t\fP \fBd_jno\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe journal number where the inode presides. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_inode_off_t\fP \fBd_ino\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIAn inode index in journal to initial data block. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A sharefs filesystem inode header. 
.PP
Definition at line 235 of file shfs.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshfs_crc_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::d_crc\fP"
.PP
A adler32 checksum of the data segment being referenced. 
.PP
Definition at line 259 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_inode_off_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::d_ino\fP"
.PP
An inode index in journal to initial data block. 
.PP
Definition at line 273 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_inode_off_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::d_jno\fP"
.PP
The journal number where the inode presides. 
.PP
Definition at line 268 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_size_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::d_size\fP"
.PP
The total size of the data segment being referenced. 
.PP
Definition at line 242 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshtime_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::d_stamp\fP"
.PP
The last time this inode was written to. 
.PP
Definition at line 247 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_type_t\fP \fBshfs_hdr_t::d_type\fP"
.PP
Type of inode (SHINODE_XX). 
.PP
Definition at line 254 of file shfs.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
