.TH "shfs_journal_t" 3 "15 Apr 2013" "Version 2.0.6" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shfs_journal_t \- 
.PP
A sharefs filesystem journal.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shfs_journal.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_t\fP * \fBtree\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe sharefs partition this journal is part of. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBindex\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe index number of the journal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_journal_data_t\fP * \fBdata\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe data segment of the journaled sharefs file system. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBdata_max\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe currently allocated size of the journal. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBdata_fd\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe file descriptor used to map the journal's memory segment to the local filesystem. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
A sharefs filesystem journal. 

Each partition is composed of \fCSHFS_MAX_JOURNAL\fP journals. 
.PP
Definition at line 66 of file shfs_journal.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBshfs_journal_data_t\fP* \fBshfs_journal_t::data\fP"
.PP
The data segment of the journaled sharefs file system. 
.PP
Definition at line 81 of file shfs_journal.h.
.SS "int \fBshfs_journal_t::data_fd\fP"
.PP
The file descriptor used to map the journal's memory segment to the local filesystem. 
.PP
Definition at line 91 of file shfs_journal.h.
.SS "size_t \fBshfs_journal_t::data_max\fP"
.PP
The currently allocated size of the journal. 
.PP
Definition at line 86 of file shfs_journal.h.
.SS "int \fBshfs_journal_t::index\fP"
.PP
The index number of the journal. This value ranges from 0 to ( \fCSHFS_MAX_JOURNAL\fP - 1 ). 
.PP
Definition at line 76 of file shfs_journal.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_t\fP* \fBshfs_journal_t::tree\fP"
.PP
The sharefs partition this journal is part of. 
.PP
Definition at line 70 of file shfs_journal.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
