.TH "shfs_t" 3 "9 Apr 2013" "Version 2.0.5" "libshare" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
shfs_t \- 
.PP
The sharefs filesystem structure.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <shfs.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBflags\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIThe flags associated with the sharefs partition. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshpeer_t\fP \fBpeer\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIA remote peer associated with the sharefs file-system. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBbase_ino\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIRoot directory. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP * \fBcur_ino\fP"
.br
.RI "\fIApplication's current working directory. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "char \fBapp_name\fP [4095+1]"
.br
.RI "\fIApplication's package title. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
The sharefs filesystem structure. 

\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
See also: \fC\fBshfs_ino_t\fP\fP 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
.PP
\fBshfs_inode_mkdir.c\fP, \fBshfs_inode_remote_copy.c\fP, and \fBshfs_inode_remote_link.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 350 of file shfs.h.
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "char \fBshfs_t::app_name\fP[4095+1]"
.PP
Application's package title. 
.PP
Definition at line 374 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_t::base_ino\fP"
.PP
Root directory. 
.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBshfs_inode_mkdir.c\fP, and \fBshfs_inode_remote_copy.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 364 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshfs_ino_t\fP* \fBshfs_t::cur_ino\fP"
.PP
Application's current working directory. 
.PP
\fBExamples: \fP
.in +1c
\fBshfs_inode_remote_link.c\fP.
.PP
Definition at line 369 of file shfs.h.
.SS "int \fBshfs_t::flags\fP"
.PP
The flags associated with the sharefs partition. 
.PP
Definition at line 354 of file shfs.h.
.SS "\fBshpeer_t\fP \fBshfs_t::peer\fP"
.PP
A remote peer associated with the sharefs file-system. 
.PP
Definition at line 359 of file shfs.h.

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for libshare from the source code.
